[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome back, everyone,
to "The Quest for the Cures
Continues."
I hope you enjoyed
last night's episode,
and I hope that you came away
empowered with information
and also convinced that
not everything that we hear
is true.
I hope that you understand now
that we have been potentially
lied to about certain things,
and certain treatments
and certain information
has potentially
been withheld from you.
One of the things that's
pretty much without dispute
is that the immune
system plays a big role
in the prevention of disease.
As a matter of fact,
the immune system
is really your first line of
defense against pathogens,
against the bad guys that come
in and try to invade your body
and make you sick.
Have you ever wondered
why, let's say, you've
got some kiddos and
they're in school,
and somebody comes to
school in their class
and they're sick with the flu.
And the next day, maybe half
the class is out with the flu,
but the other half is at
school and they never get sick.
What was the difference?
What was the difference
between those children?
Were they exposed to
different flu bugs?
No.
They're exposed to
the same flu bug,
but the kids that
didn't get sick
had an immune system
that was functioning
the way it should have been.
And those that got sick, for
some reason, that immune system
was compromised.
Tonight's going to be
a powerful episode.
You are going to understand
the immune system better
than 99% of the people
out there after you
listen to this information.
We're going to teach you
what the immune system is,
what it does, and
what substances
might compromise that immune
system and make you sick.
I hope you enjoy
the information,
and I hope you learn
from the information
that we're going to
share with you tonight.
Thanks for joining us.
Enjoy the show.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Our first guest tonight
is Dr. Rashid Buttar.
He's a friend of
mine, and he practices
medicine in North Carolina.
He's got some valuable insight
into the immune system,
but I think this first
quote from Dr. Buttar
is going to blow your socks off.
>> So cancer,
first and foremost,
is a problem with
the immune system.
You cannot have cancer if you
have an intact immune system.
If you have cancer, you don't
If people say, oh no, my
immune system is fine,
then you can't have cancer.
You can't have two, OK?
Those two things
can't live together.
If it's an immune system
that's compromised,
you could have cancer.
If you have a cancer, you
have to, by definition,
have a compromised
immune system.
>> I was privileged to speak
at the Cancer Control Society
Convention in August,
2014, in Los Angeles.
And while I was there,
I was able to interview
three medical doctors
about this same issue--
the immune system.
Let's have a listen.
>> But the first thing I do
when I get a new patient is,
one of the things that I
do is, I begin to unimpede
their immune system.
Because every cancer
patient, their immune system
has missed the cancer.
So it has missed it.
And, so, you have to
unimpede their immune system,
and then you have to
stimulate it back into action.
Because, at the end
of the day, they
will not survive if their
immune system is not
really stimulated.
One of the many fallacies
of standard cancer care
is that they just want
to kill cancer cells.
Well, that's nice, but
why did you get cancer?
>> Yeah.
What was the cause?
>> They never asked
that question.
I tell my patients--
I encourage them to continue
to see their oncologist
to give them feedback so
that as they get well,
they will have a witness borne
to them that other things work.
Whereas, they know good and
well that what they're doing
is not working.
But I say two things
that you'll be amazed at.
They'll never ask what caused
this and deal with that
or try to deal
with it in any way.
It's just-- let's
kill cancer cells.
And then number two,
as you get well,
they will never
ask you, what did
you do, because they
don't want that knowledge,
because then
they're responsible.
So that's two things that
the doctors will never
ask the patient
who is getting well
from taking herbals
or nutritionals
or alternative
medical treatment.
But you have to unimpede
the immune system.
And then you have to
stimulate it back in action.
Because, at the end of the
day, without your immune system
working, you will not live.
>> With all our patients,
whether it's cancer or any kind
of chronic disease, it's always
about lowering inflammation
and improving and increasing
immune system response.
Because your immune system
has to fight, fix, and repair
against anything, right?
So it's not just suppression,
it's about strengthening.
But the nice thing about
the natural therapies
is that it turns on and
off genes, accordingly.
So it's not just turning
off genes always,
there's also up regulation
and down regulation.
So, curcumin, I mentioned when
I showed you that slide today,
and it shows certain
genes are now turned on,
that our body already has this
natural mechanism of fighting
cancer, for example.
And we want to keep
stimulating that.
What happens is,
as we get older,
through other things of
environment, lifestyle, stress,
diet, those genes and
those transcription factors
and those proteins turn off.
So we are all born
with it, we just
want to keep stimulating it.
And the nice thing is that
these natural therapies
can turn on the things that we
want to turn on and turn off
the things we want to turn off.
>> The immune system
and inflammation,
how are they related to cancer?
>> Well-- It would be
logical to argue that,
in an intact immune system,
there would be no room
for cancer.
And the immune system, which is
kind of an indefinable entity,
it's not like it's right over
here or it's right over here.
I mean, the immune system,
it wraps around the GI tract.
It's a nebulous, almost
a vaporous process.
So it's hard to say, in anatomy
and physiology and dissection,
here is the immune system.
Having said that, if
it's functioning well,
its job is to enhance health
and promote detoxification
and so forth.
And inflammation is one
of the main instruments
that the immune system
uses to regulate health.
So one of the things
we find in cancer,
which is quite interesting,
is that, typically,
the guy that says, I haven't
been sick a day in my life,
I'm thinking, we have to
worry about cancer here.
Whereas, the kid that
gets a lot of fevers
and has an immune system
which is always up and running
and not apathetic,
that's a good sign.
So if you want to get a
good prognosis for health,
it's someone who's been
able to have a challenge,
up-regulate the immune
system, and have a big fever,
burn through it,
and come out better.
>> Very similar to something
that Dr. Rashid Buttar told me.
He said, the people
that I worry about
are the people that
have never gotten sick.
>> Yeah.
>> Because of the
same exact reason.
>> Yeah.
These are principles
that go back--
I mean, I'd like to say
I invented them all,
but they were long before
any of us were alive.
This is what people's
grandmothers know.
Which is why, in the old
days, when kids had the mumps,
you'd go have mumps parties.
>> Yeah, the mumps parties.
Chickenpox parties.
>> Yeah.
>> I was able to interview Dr.
David Brownstein in Detroit,
Michigan, about this topic.
Let's hear what he has to say.
>> I assume you drove a car out
to my house today to do this
interview.
>> Well, you know,
our horses broke down.
So, yes we did.
>> So I also assume that
when you take that car back
to the airport, you're going
to put gas in that car.
The car needs a certain kind
of gas to run optimally.
And, let's say a gas station--
maybe your own personal car
would be a better analogy
for this-- but if there was
a gas station that said $0.10
a gallon in gas, and you pull
up there and you say, hey,
I'm going to do a deal here.
It's going to cost me
less to fill up my car.
And then you look
at it, and it's mud.
Are you going to put that
mud in your gas tank?
No, because you know it's
going to wreck your car.
Well, I say the same thing.
We need to put the
right fuel in our bodies
so our immune system
functions optimally.
We have a great design in the
human body to fight infection,
to stay healthy into old
age, to keep brain function
into old age.
And if we treat the body
right, the immune system
can work just fine.
And treating that body right
is doing the basics like what
we're talking about--
supplying it with
the right nutrients,
maintaining hydration,
keeping iodine levels up,
and maintaining adequate
amounts of salt intake.
And the immune system
can do its job,
surveil for foreign
substances and foreign bodies
and get rid of that, and
it can keep cancer at bay.
When the immune
system gets disrupted,
I think that's when bad
things start happening to us.
>> OK.
So we're starting to get
the full picture here.
We just heard from
five medical doctors
that all talked about
the fact that cancer
is a result of a
compromised immune system.
When I visited Las Vegas, I
interviewed Dr. Keith Scott
Mumby who had some
valuable information
to share about
the immune system.
Talk about white blood
cells, the immune system,
and inflammation, as it
all relates to cancer.
>> OK.
Well, you know, a part
of the question, Ty, is--
What is the basic
model for cancer?
There's the stem cell model and
the metabolic model and so on.
But, certainly, at the core,
if not the cause, many people,
and I'm one of them, see
cancer as basically a disease
of the immune system.
Especially in our
modern world, I
don't think there's
any way you're
going to stop cells firing off
and going wrong and turning
into rogue cells.
There's just too many toxins.
But a good immune system will
pick them up very quickly
and eliminate them.
So in a very strong
sense, cancer
is a disease of
the immune system.
So you want to do
everything in your power
to help the immune system.
That means, you
know, the right kind
of nutrients that will help it.
It also means
removing the stresses
that would stop it working.
They're all
inflammatory in nature.
I mentioned food,
inflammatory foods,
but there's chemicals,
pesticides, pollutants,
you know, bisfenol, all of these
things, loads of those too.
And then don't forget
heavy metal toxicity.
Mercury and lead
and these things
not only have their
poisonous parts,
but they're highly
inflammatory too.
So it's very important to
unburden the immune system.
And I've got to
say that emotions
can be pretty inflammatory too.
The immune system gets burdened
even if a person is upset, sad,
depressed, or whatever.
And I would like a minute to
talk about that with cancer.
I think it's a very
crucial element in cancer.
But, really, anything--
that's what I'm saying--
anything that's inflammatory
is bad for cancer.
And, yet, we can get
a good handle on it.
There are ways, like you
can take your antioxidants,
you phytonutrients, omega 3s
are brilliant anti-inflammatory.
But removing the triggers,
like the inflammatory foods
and heavy metals, is a
better strategy anyway.
So that's something
we should all do.
And it's back to my saying,
any good health measure
is an anti-cancer measure.
>> I love that quote.
"Any good health measure
is an anti-cancer measure."
And if you have a fully
functioning immune system,
you cannot have cancer.
Now, what's one of
the main things that
compromises the immune system
other than the conventional
treatments, chemo and radiation?
Which, yes, they do
compromise the immune system.
They devastate
the immune system.
But what's one other
thing, a common thing
that people eat on
an everyday basis?
Sugar.
Let's listen to nutritionist
KC Craichy discuss
this very important subject.
>> So sugar, we talk about
it, it's a big problem.
Yes, it's a big problem.
I mean, sugar is wonderful.
Everybody likes sugar.
I like sugar, but I choose
not to thrive on sugar.
See, sugar should have been
in our fun foods-- building
blocks, fuel, and fun.
OK?
Fun foods.
Every now and then
you have sugar.
But, sugar, 100 grams
of carbohydrates--
I saw a study that was
either 100 grams or 200 grams
recently where it said
that if you had a pizza
meal, for instance,
or a pasta meal,
within 15 minutes of eating that
meal, your leukocytic index--
which is basically, essentially,
a white blood cell-- how many
bad guys can it eat in an hour?
The study was suggesting
it should be about 16
per white blood cell in an hour.
But within eating this
carbohydrate meal,
within 15 minutes, you've
dropped from 16 to 1.9
and hold that for hours.
>> So you have 10% capacity
that you're use to.
>> 10% capacity.
And, basically, these
patients are often
in an immune-compromised
state to start with.
Some of the treatments
they are getting
are taking their immunity
down to almost nothing.
And then they're
throwing sugar in on top
of that, which directly
feeds the problem,
but it also directly takes
a whack at the immunity.
It's a terrible cycle that
people need to consider.
One century ago,
sugar was a delicacy.
So you'd have-- maybe Mom
would make an apple pie
or you'd go to the store
and get a little treat
or something like that.
Five pounds a year,
it's estimated,
would be the intake of
sugar per year, per person,
on the average.
Today, it's a whopping 150 plus
pounds per person, per year,
on the average.
And somebody is
eating our sugar.
So the average is pretty high.
The point is, people are eating
their weight in sugar a year.
>> 150 pounds of sugar
per person, per year?
Wow, that's incredible.
Let's listen to a few more
physicians talk about the way
that sugar compromises
the immune system
and also actually
fuels cancer cells.
Talk about, briefly,
the connection
between sugar and cancer cells.
>> There's certain common
characteristics that all cancer
cells have.
One of those characteristics
is that cancer
is an obligate
glucose metabolizer,
meaning that it
has an obligation
to metabolize glucose.
It only survives on sugar.
Other types of
components that would
be commonalities in
all cancer, cancer
is a highly anaerobic scenario.
Cancer likes an
anaerobic scenario.
Cancer does not
like oxygen. Oxygen
works as a drug against cancer.
Another component would be,
cancer is an acidic process.
So in an alkaline environment,
cancer does not do well.
So there's many
common characteristics
that cancer has.
One of those is that it is an
obligate glucose metabolizer.
So if you can reduce the
amount of simple sugars,
you are effectively going
to be reducing the food
supply to the cancer.
Patrick Quillin, who
wrote "Beating Cancer
with Nutrition," a very good
friend of mine, in his book
says that 42% to 46%
of cancer patients
die of cachexia,
of malnutrition.
How many oncologists are
addressing malnutrition?
No one.
In fact, what do they do?
They give people
Ensure, which is sugar.
You know that cancer is an
obligate glucose metabolizer.
It needs sugar to survive.
In fact, one of
the techniques is
to reduce the amount of sugar so
that it can't feed the cancer.
But they're actually
giving gasoline to the fire
and then expecting
to put out the fire.
You can't put out a
fire with gasoline.
>> I wanted to get the opinion
of Dr. Patrick Quillin,
a nutritional expert who wrote
a book called "Beating Cancer
with Nutrition," about the
effects of sugar on cancer
cells and their
insidious relationship.
>> Cancer is a sugar feeder.
Cancer is what's called an
obligate glucose metabolizer,
meaning that there is a
dramatic uptake of glucose
in the cells of tumor cells.
If you can lower gut
and blood glucose,
you can help to
slow down cancer.
>> Normal cells go through
what we call oxidative
phosphorylation, which means
you take oxygen, you take sugar,
and you make 32 molecules of
this ATP which is our energy
currency, right?
>> You said oxidative
phosphorylation?
>> Oxidative phosphorylation.
So we take oxygen, and
through this process
we add a phosphorous
to this ATP,
and that's our energy currency.
That's how we move about.
And the more ATP, the better.
So if you're a cell that is
able to undergo oxidative
phosphorolation-- and,
again, you're able to do that
because a set of
genes is turned on--
you have to go through what is
called the Krebs cycle, then
that's a happy state.
If you have to move to
this anaerobic, what
we call anaerobic metabolism,
for every molecule of glucose
you can't get 32 ATP anymore.
You can only get two
molecules of ATP, right?
>> Right.
>> And anaerobic means--
>> Anaerobic means you
don't have to have oxygen.
>> OK.
>> That means that I can
survive without oxygen, right,
which makes me able to survive
in a more toxic environment,
but it makes my energy
level a lot more restricted.
So then that's why
cancer cells are
so ravenous about having to
absorb sugar, because they can
only make two ATP per molecule.
>> Because cancer
cells love sugar.
You hear that
phrase all the time,
and that explains why
that phrase came about.
>> Correct.
And one of the tests that
we use to diagnose cancer
is a PET scan.
So with a PET scan,
we take radiated sugar
and we inject it in you.
Because cancer cells take up
sugar so much more efficiently
than normal cells, they will
take up that radiated sugar.
And then we're able
to see on the PET
scan were the sugar
is, which that tells us
where the cancer is, right?
So, yeah.
So we're very aware
of the dependence
on cancer cells for
prodigious amounts of sugar,
and that's why cancer
patients die of starvation
is because the cancer
cells will suck up
all the sugar from human cells.
>> Sugar is a fuel
for cancer cells.
So, basically,
cancer cells, they
have an altered metabolism,
an altered physiology,
and they're not able to produce
energy from aerobic metabolism.
And so the mitochondria
itself is damaged.
So they depend on anaerobic
metabolism, so without oxygen,
which is basically
breaking down sugar.
So they utilize sugar,
and they produce
a lot of waste products,
particularly one
that we're probably all
familiar with, lactic acid.
And so they produce a
high amount of acids,
and they consume a tremendous
amount of energy in our system
through sugar.
And so, basically, when
we take the sugar out,
we're taking out the
preferred fuel source
for the cancer cells, so they
become weakened in that state.
As opposed to when we're fueling
our body with a lot of sugar,
not only does it cause the
free radical damage, which
is what actually damages the
mitochondria to begin with
and creates this whole
process, but at the same time,
we're also providing
the preferred fuel
source for more cancer cell
development in our body.
See, what most people
realize is, all of us
have cancer cells.
We're all developing
them every single day.
Typically, our immune
system would hunt them down
and regulate them.
However, when we've got
immune deficiencies, which
is another problem
with sugar, it
weakens our body's
innate immune system.
And so when that happens,
now these cancer cells
will start to grow without
being checked, being
kept in check, by our body's
natural immune response.
So we just continue
to dump in the sugar.
Again, we're weakening
our immune system,
and we're strengthening
the cancer cells.
We're actually giving them
an advantage in our body.
So, you know, you can
feed one or the other.
You can feed your immune
system and strengthen that
or you can feed the cancer
and strengthen that.
And, I think, if we all
have this understanding
and this knowledge
and really knew that,
obviously, we would want
to feed our immune system.
>> While I was at the Cancer
Control Society Convention
in Los Angeles
earlier this year,
I was able to speak with
Bob Wright of the American
Anti-Cancer Institute.
>> Another thing
that sugar does,
and most people
don't know about is,
the average amount of sugar in
one can of let's say Coca-Cola,
it's probably 9 or 10
teaspoons of sugar in there.
That's enough sugar to
effectively shut down
a minimum of 50% of your
immune system for four hours.
One 12-ounce Coke.
If you're a cancer patient,
can you afford that?
Since the immune system is the
only thing that can heal you,
we simply can't afford that.
You've got to avoid
all the sugar.
If you take a Diet
Pepsi or Coke,
it ranges from 2.5 to 2.7 pH.
Very acidic.
And acid, if you're
a cancer patient,
is one of your main
problems to begin with,
acid and inflammation.
And we know, from Dr. Weeks,
we've known this before,
that inflammation causes
metastases of cancer as well.
But it would take you
32 12-ounce glasses
of 9.5 pH water to
neutralize that one
12-ounce can of Coca-Cola.
That's why we're
acidic, and that's
why we're struggling today.
>> Let's see what
Suzanne Somers--
one of America's most
beloved personalities--
and Burton Goldberg-- who is
actually highlighted in her
bestselling book "Knockout"--
have to say about this issue.
>> When I get tempted, because
I've got this ice cream shop
down the corner that I--
I love ice cream.
I love ice cream
and I love cake.
>> Who doesn't?
I then envision the little
bad guys in my GI tract going,
come on, you can have some.
Come on, give me some.
Because all they want is sugar.
They need sugar.
They thrive on sugar.
They have to have sugar.
And I say to them, no.
I am going to
starve you to death.
My job is to stamp
you out, so I'm never
giving you your Happy Meal.
But how can the
oncologist's office--
and I've seen it where
you go into their office
and they have candy
bowls with candy
there, because cancer patients
on chemotherapy are so weak
and they need a
little pick me up.
And I have looked at
that at different times
in oncologist's office going--
>> What are they thinking?
>> What are you thinking?
>> The oncologists use sugar to
carry the radiologic molecule
into the cancer cell to show
up on the X-ray, the PET scan.
The oncologist knows
that sugar feeds cancer,
because that's why he uses
it, as a Trojan horse.
And when you finish your chemo,
in a conventional setting,
they give you cookies
and ice cream or candy.
That is tantamount to
putting gasoline on a fire.
That means these oncologists
are guilty of crimes
against humanity.
They are killing their patients.
>> Wow!
Passionate words from
a very passionate man.
I think we're all starting
to get the picture here
about how sugar
feeds cancer cells
and it compromises
our immune system.
But that lends the question--
What exactly is
the immune system?
I couldn't think
of a better person
to answer that question than
immunologist AJ Lanigan.
>> I mean, I'm old enough
to remember "Tricky Dick"
Nixon saying, we're going to
have a cure for cancer in 10
years.
Well, obviously, he
wasn't a math major.
So where is it?
Is there, in fact,
even a cure for cancer?
Again, I'm not smart enough
to tell you that there is,
and I don't make no
claim that I have one.
But I do know this.
To overcome cancer, to
stop it before it begins,
or to reverse it once
you've contracted it,
I'm pretty much convinced
the immune system is going
to have to be a major player.
Your immune system is
really the only thing
that stands between you and
all those things in you,
on you, and around you trying
to get you all the time.
Cancer included.
The largest number of
immune cells in your body
are known as neutrophils.
When you go get your blood work,
just standard old blood work,
NEU is the abbreviation
for neutrophils.
On any given day, they'll
account for anywhere
from 50% to 70% of your
total immune army, which
are basically your
white blood cells.
Ty, they can't see cancer.
They can't see it
on your best day.
The majority of your immune
system cannot see cancer.
In fact, the very narrow
margin would be made up
of natural killer cells, and
they're constantly surveilling
all the cells in your body.
Healthy cell-- smiley face.
Hm, this cell doesn't
have a smiley face.
Badda-bing, badda-boom.
That's the job of
natural killer cells.
There may be virus
hiding inside that cell.
That cell could be mutating.
It could be mutating
and be benign,
it could be mutating
and turning cancerous.
It doesn't matter.
No smiley face.
You got some cytotoxic
T lymphocytes--
I've talked about them
being ninja cells.
>> What does cytotoxic mean?
>> Cytotoxic means,
think of cyto--
cytoplasm.
That's the guts of the cell.
That's the innards.
So if something
is cytotoxic, that
means that when it hits a
cell, it basically blows it
up and lets the guts come out.
So cells, for example,
your NK cells.
Their job is to keep
ramming into that cell that
doesn't have a smiley face.
And every time it rams into
it, it releases chemicals
into the lining of that target
cell until it finally bursts
open, or lyses, L-Y-S-E.
It will lyse that cell wall
and the juice comes out.
The cytoplasm.
The same thing happens with
cytotoxic T lymphocytes.
>> Question for you, then.
On these, you've
got T lymphocytes,
you've got neutrophils, you've
got NK cells, natural killer
cells.
OK.
The neutrophils
and the NK cells,
are they lymphocytes
or are they leukocytes?
What's the difference between--
>> OK.
Let me try to give you
a picture for that.
>> OK.
>> Think of the immune
system as having two arms.
And let's call one of these arms
"specific" and the other arm
is "nonspecific."
>> OK.
>> Now, when I talk in
terms of nonspecific,
I'm talking about neutrophils,
macrophages-- or macrophages,
depending on which side of
the Atlantic you're educated--
eosinophils.
And these cells are
basically frontline,
and they deal with
simply one question--
Are you self, S-E-L-F?
And if the question
is not yes, then
basically their
job is to kick butt
and get rid of whatever it is.
Now, on the other side, the
specific immune response
is going to be
things like B cells.
Now, B cells are lymphocytes.
B cells, and all the
other cells, by the way,
are borne from the bone marrow.
>> Wow, AJ really explained
the immune system in such a way
that even a child
can understand it.
But he mentioned the fact that
most of the immune system,
the majority of immune
system, I think he said,
cannot even see cancer cells.
What did he mean by that?
I was in LA earlier this year
speaking at the Cancer Control
Society Convention, and I sat
down with Dr. Tony Jimenez,
and he shed some light
on this information.
>> As physicians, and as
practitioners or advisors
or counselors, we
always tell patients,
and people in general, let's
enhance your immune system
if you have cancer, because
we know that the immune system
takes care of a cold to cancer
and everything in between.
So that's the thought.
Let's optimize
the immune system,
and we've gone a long way in
addressing a cancer situation.
But let's think
about it this way.
We know that in one cubic
centimeter of a tumor,
there is approximately
1 billion cancer cells.
And that's billion, with a B.
>> OK.
>> 65% of those cells, at
any one time, were dormant.
35% of those cells are active.
So they're in the synthesis
phase of the cell cycle,
not in the resting phase.
OK?
Remember mitosis in
101 Biology, right?
This is what we're
talking about.
So, of all those
cells, 99% of the cells
are what's called
non-cancer stem cells.
>> OK.
>> 1%, about, are
cancer stem cells.
So when someone has
chemo or radiation,
they are not only suppressing
the immune system,
but they're making the cancer
stem cells more active and more
aggressive.
>> And that's the boogers
you've got to worry about.
>> Those are the boogers
you have to worry about.
Why?
Because they survive
in the bloodstream.
They're immortal, if you
don't do something about them,
not like the
non-cancer stem cells
that the chemo is affecting.
So, wow, someone has
80% reduction in tumor
or now you're in remission.
>> You got rid of
the good cells,
and the bad cells you
just strengthened.
>> Right.
And the non-cancer stem
cells are not necessarily
good cells, Ty,
but they're cells
that have a finite lifespan.
And they make the
bulk of the tumor.
>> OK.
>> You see?
So then the tumor decreases
because the chemo and radiation
can affect the
non-cancer stem cell.
So the patient has a PET scan,
MRI, CAT scan, bone scan,
whatever it is, and they
have a false impression,
by their physician, that now
they can't see the tumor.
So you're in remission,
but the cancer
stem cells were never
addressed with the chemo,
and never will with the
chemo and radiation.
So I'm going to your question.
>> No, this is
fantastic information.
>> So the cancer stem cells
are cells that survive
in the bloodstream.
They are like five
star generals.
They've been tested
and in battle,
and they're going
to metastasize.
See, non-cancer stem
cells cannot metastasize.
Only cancer stem cells can.
So when we want to address
the immune system in cancer,
the problem is, the immune
system cannot recognize cancer
stem cells.
Why?
Because they have a
protein on the cell
surface that shields
them, or cloaks them,
from the immune system.
>> OK.
>> Dr. Robert Rowen,
a good friend of ours,
I think it was the
January, 2014, newsletter,
"Second Opinion," he wrote
an article on cancer stem
cell's ability to cloak, or
hide themselves from the immune
system.
So a cancer patient may
have the best immune system
according to white blood
cells, T cells, lymphocytes,
natural killer cells, but is
that immune system recognizing
and able to penetrate
a cancer stem cell?
That's the question.
>> And what you're saying is
that these cancer stem cells
have some kind of a cloaking
to where the immune system
can't see them.
>> Exactly.
And that's well describe in
conventional scientific medical
literature.
This is not an
alternative thought.
This is dually
scientifically proven.
>> According to Dr. Jimenez,
the immune system cannot see
the cancer stem cells, which
he calls the five star generals
that are directing the invasion.
So what can we do
to make these cells
visible to our immune system?
>> There are substances that
have been shown to attack
cancer stem cells,
scientifically, like metformin,
ellagic acid, green tea extract.
But the list is very small
because, first of all,
it's very difficult to extract
cancer stem cells from a human
and keep them alive in the
lab for them to be studied.
There's only a few
labs that do that,
and this is a very, very
expensive process, right,
in the millions of dollars
to study cancer stem cells.
>> All the more reason
to eat fresh berries,
like raspberries and
blackberries and strawberries,
and to keep drinking
your green tea,
since they all contain high
amounts of ellagic acid.
And as Dr. Jimenez
just mentioned,
ellagic acid targets
cancer stem cells,
which are otherwise invisible
to the immune system.
Now, let's listen to
what AJ Lanigan has
to say about the amazing way
that the T helper lymphocytes
communicate with and regulate
the other immune cells.
>> Again, the macrophages,
the neutrophils,
the natural killers, how
do they regulate them?
Through what we call cytokines.
Chemical messengers.
Think of them as chemical
e-mails or faxes.
And so that's very important.
Not just the cells, but
also cellular communication.
All of this working,
by the way, Ty,
we don't give one thought to it.
There is more wisdom
in one of these cells
than there has been in all the
libraries that have ever been,
are now, or ever will be.
I think that's pretty cool.
Again, if you can
imagine the immune cell
as a guy or gal in the army,
and they're dropped out there
in Timbuktu.
And the enemy is firing.
And the enemy is advancing,
and they're doing their job,
fighting back and
shooting and so forth.
And all of sudden, here
comes the garbage truck
and dumps all this
rotten garbage
in the foxhole with you.
Well, are you going to
fight and shoot or are you
going to tote garbage?
So if you can get that
figured in your mind, then
it helps you to understand.
This is why I don't need
to consume so much sugar.
to consume, or be around,
all these things that we've come
to learn aren't good for you.
It wasn't just, well,
my mama told me so.
It's because the
burdens that we're
putting on the immune system
prevent it from digging in
and fighting the fight
and protecting you.
If your immune system's got to
make its living toting garbage,
you're not going
to live very long.
You know, you're going
to be constantly besieged
with disease and pestilence.
And if that's the
way you want to live,
keep doing what
you've been doing.
>> Wow.
So are you sick?
If you are, you probably need to
look at what you've been doing
and maybe change some habits.
Didn't Einstein say that
the definition of insanity
was doing the same
thing over and over
and expecting different results?
Let's listen to Dr. Vronique
Desaulniers, Dr. V.,
as she explains
the immune system,
our first line of defense.
>> The immune
system is powerful.
It's the first line
of defense that we
have against bacteria, viruses,
pathogens, and cancer cells.
And what a lot of
people don't realize
is that the immune
system is powerful.
It has over hundreds of
functions in the body.
And there are billions,
billions of immune cells
at your disposal every day.
And when I think of
our immune system,
I think of a "Star
Wars" galactic battle
going on because the
immune system really
does some incredible things.
One of the immune
cells will shoot out
specific particles
that will blast open
a virus in a cancer cell.
Other immune cells will secrete
specific chemical poisons
to cause those pathogens to die.
Other immune cells will send out
these long, sticky, gooey pods
and engulf the pathogen
and the cancer cell
and recycle it and
use its body parts.
So the immune system
is very powerful.
And the important thing to
know about your immune system
is that 80% of
your immune system
is in the mucosal lining
of your intestinal tract.
So, if you don't have a
healthy intestinal tract,
if you're feeding your body
a lot of junk, you know,
the typical S-A-D foods, SAD
food, standard American Diet
food, your immune system
is going to be compromised.
>> No doctor has ever
healed anyone of anything
in the history of the world.
The human immune system
heals, and that's
the only thing that heals.
True, doctors sometimes can
alleviate symptoms enough so
the body can go back
and heal itself.
Thus, the doctor gets the
credit for the healing.
OK, I'm all right with that.
But we need to stop
dealing with symptoms
and start dealing
with causation.
>> Bob Wright just said
something very interesting.
Doctors don't heal, the
immune system heals.
So let's go on down the road to
Amarillo, Texas, to talk to Dr.
Roby Mitchell and
get his perspective.
>> With a weakened
immune system,
then that allows cancer
cells to grow better, right?
So they do work together.
And so that's another
reason why one
of the protocols for many
physicians that treat cancer
is to bring down
the fungal load.
Because if you bring
down the fungal load,
then the immune system
gets stronger, right?
The one thing that does
kill cancer, cure cancer,
is your immune system.
Chemotherapy, radiation,
these things--
if you go to the
Cancer 101 book,
it will tell you that
they can't cure cancer.
The cell kinetics
are just against it.
That will never happen.
It's basically the same effect
as when we give antibiotics.
Antibiotics can't cure anything.
They can bring down the
number, the cell count,
such that then your immune
system can take over,
but it's your immune system
that does the curing.
We have to understand that
the thing that cures cancer
is your immune system.
If we stay with the
bacterial overgrowth analogy,
I might need to give
a bit of an antibiotic
to get the number down so
that your immune system is
just not overwhelmed, but
then bring that number down,
and then your immune
system can take over.
There may be a role for
chemotherapy, radiation
therapy, in that sense.
The overwhelming majority of
physicians who treat cancer
with those therapies,
depend solely
on the radiation or the chemo.
And the consequence of that
is a weakened immune system.
So the very system that you're
depending on to cure cancer,
we kill that off, right?
And that's why so many
people with cancer,
they die of the treatment
rather than the cancer.
>> Everyone has cancer
cells in their body.
The only permanent cure to
cancer is your immune system.
And nutrition gives
your immune system
the firepower it needs
to keep you well.
So, without nutrition, you're
fighting with no weapons.
Without your immune system,
you're fighting with no army.
Chemotherapy destroys your army.
It destroys your immune system.
Not only that, it causes
secondary cancers in the body,
it makes existing cancer
stem cells more aggressive,
and it causes a host of
lifelong, potentially lifelong,
damages to the body, from
brain damage, to hearing loss,
to neuropathy-- the loss of the
use of your hands and feet--
to kidney and bladder damage.
I mean, bone damage,
heart damage, lung damage.
It's just total collateral
damage from chemotherapy.
>> So a lot of times you can
give chemotherapy and the tumor
goes away, but you also
destroy the immune system.
Then the cancer comes
back with a vengeance.
That's how you
get rid of cancer,
through your immune
system, through systems
that are already within
you that have failed.
So what we have to do is
get them to work again.
And that difference has
made a tremendous difference
in the results.
>> Radiation is bad
for any healthy person.
Why?
Because it suppresses the immune
system and causes [INAUDIBLE]
to form so that cells mutate and
then you end up getting cancer.
So now somebody has
cancer, what do you do?
You put them into
that very same thing
that you know is
going to cause cancer.
Now, radiation is supposed
to kill the cancer, that's
the philosophy.
But you're also going
to cause more mutation
to the healthy cells and cause
a worsening of the effects.
It's like pouring
gasoline on a fire.
>> Where is the disconnect
mentally that we have been
brainwashed into believing
that we can cure cancer with
substances that cause cancer?
>> Well, yeah.
No, exactly.
We live in a culture that has
allowed itself to be dominated
by truly insane ideas.
>> Yeah.
>> For example,
radiotherapy for cancer.
Well, if radiation is so
good at treating cancer,
then we should turn Fukushima
into a global cancer treatment
center.
>> The cancer industry is
really driven by greed and money
because there is a cure.
People are healing
from cancer every day
without the use of toxic drugs.
There are literally
thousands and thousands
of published studies that
prove the effectiveness
of natural medicine.
But you can't patent a plant,
and you can't patent an herb.
Therefore, there is no money and
no financial gain in teaching
people about these things.
And, yet, the sad thing
is that millions of people
are being sacrificed, and
they're dying horrific deaths,
and having horrific symptoms as
a result of these treatments.
And, oftentimes, they die as a
result of the cancer treatment
itself and not so
much the cancer.
>> Mm.
That's sad.
That actually happened to
my parents, specifically,
my father.
He was diagnosed with cancer.
He was dead 25 days later,
and he died from the surgery.
So I know that to be true
from a personal perspective.
Chemo destroys
the immune system.
Radiation destroys
It's like adding
gasoline to the fire.
Now, Dr. V. just
mentioned the fact
that there is a cancer
industry, in her own words.
I wanted to get more information
about this cancer industry,
so I headed back to Detroit to
talk to Dr. David Brownstein.
>> I've heard you mention
the cancer medical complex.
What do you mean when
you talk about the cancer
medical complex?
>> So I have written about this,
and I say the cancer medical
complex is this whole monolith
that's been set up to make
money on cancer.
And so let's take
the woman who is--
a young woman who has been
feeling a breast lump,
goes to her doctor.
She goes for a mammogram,
they pick up something.
She's going to go for a
biopsy, they pick up something.
Now, she's going to
go for an excision.
Oh, she's got cancer.
She's going to get
chemo and radiation.
It's this whole system
set up to treat cancer,
and it's a multi-trillion
dollar industry right now.
And the problem is,
people aren't living
longer from these therapies.
There's very few cancers
that we've done well with.
We've done well with some
of the blood cancers,
with some of the
leukemias and lymphomas,
and testicular cancer.
The rest of them,
the mortality rate
has not changed much over
the last 70 to 80 years.
We have one in seven women with
breast cancer in the United
States, one in three men
with prostate cancer.
We've got lung cancer
and colon cancer, more
than we know what to do with.
And, really, the
conventional therapies
for most types of
cancer are pretty bad.
You know, if you look at the
cancer statistics from 1930,
which are being kept
until the present day,
our mortality rate is
really unchanged for most
of the hard tumors, which is
breast, lung, prostate, colon.
And it's really
sad because we're
spending these billions
and trillions of dollars
on therapies that
aren't working.
We really need to go back
to work to figure out--
What's the underlying
cause of these illnesses?
And I can tell you, the
underlying cause of cancer--
it's multi-factorial.
There's not one single
cause for everybody.
But I think that toxicity is
part of the problem with it.
Poor nutrition is part of it.
Poor diet is part of it.
Dehydration is part of it.
Lack of iodine is
a big part of it.
There's a whole bunch
of things going on,
and either we start to treat
these underlying causes that
are, I think, part
of the underlying
cause of the problem of
cancer, or we're just
going to continue going on
with so many people suffering
from it.
>> Dr. Brownstein mentioned
getting to the root causes
instead of just treating
symptoms of disease.
So let's look at hormones and
the immune system in cancer.
Is there a connection
between the three?
>> If your hormones
are not working,
your immune system can't work.
For example, your thyroid.
The thyroid is the
battery to your body.
So the thyroid, if
it's not functioning,
it cannot take care of you.
It drives the metabolism of
every single cell in your body.
Now, unfortunately,
a lot more people
are low thyroid today
because of wheat--
wheat is very allergenic
to the thyroid--
and because of radiation
from the most recent
Japanese nuclear power plant.
So a lot more
people are becoming
low thyroid because of that.
Then, if you've got any kind
of other hormonal imbalances--
For example, when do
guys get prostate cancer?
They don't get
prostate cancer when
they're 25 when all their
hormones are in great shape.
They get prostate
cancer after 50
because that's when the
hormones start changing.
>> What is the difference
between the hormones in females
and males.
And then I want to get to a
question concerning the effect
of estrogens on cancers.
>> There's no difference
in the molecular aspect
of the hormones that
are in men and women.
Women have
testosterone, men have
estrogen. Both have progesterone
and corticosteroids and all
these.
What's different is the amount.
So women have a higher
amount of estrogens.
Men have a higher
amount of testosterone.
Women have a higher amount
of estrogen receptors.
And men have a higher amount
of testosterone receptors.
And so that's key, that
marriage between the receptor
and the hormone.
Such that, I can give a woman
testosterone injections.
She will never get
as big as a man
because she doesn't have the
receptors that a man has.
We can put estrogen into a man.
You're not going to
turn him into a woman,
right, because he doesn't
have the receptors
for those estrogens.
But we all produce the same
exact molecules, as far
as estrogens and testosterone
and DHA and progesterone
and these other hormones.
It's important
that we understand,
for these estrogens,
the human ones
anyway that, again, one of the
pharmacologic characteristics
of estrogens is that
they make cells multiply.
And this is very
important in pregnancy
because that fetus
has to grow so much.
And so during pregnancy,
estrogen levels go way up
and, again, we get
exponential growth of a fetus.
Other cells, if they get exposed
to higher levels of estrogen,
then they can grow faster also.
So in breast cancer, in prostate
cancer, or other cancers,
if estrogen levels
are elevated, or if we
are exposed to a more
potent estrogen--
so this is where we're getting
into environmental estrogens--
then that cancer
can grow faster.
And it's not necessarily that
endogenous estrogens cause
cancer, but they can
certainly-- like insulin,
that's the other
cancer-promoting hormone--
they can make the
fire burn hotter.
>> OK.
Great analogy.
So it's like more
gasoline on the fire
when you have a higher level of
estrogen than you should have.
>> Correct.
>> Which, lots of articles
today that we're reading about
the effect of what they
call xenoestrogens,
which are fake estrogens
in the environment.
>> Right, right.
>> So can you talk about that
a little bit in relationship
to cancer?
>> Right.
So that's one of
the reasons why we
see such a proliferation
of cancer in the West,
and have seen it in the West.
And we're seeing it more in
Third World countries now.
But because of our exposure
to environmental and
pharmaceutical
estrogens, that has
the effect of throwing
more gasoline on the fire.
So some of the
insecticides, pesticides,
fungicides that we use, they
have an estrogen effect.
These are what we
call xenoestrogens,
xeno meaning foreign.
So, again, long-term exposure.
So we have to think about
estrogen exposure in lifetime
exposure as we do with
radiation exposure.
So if you're a
radiation technologist,
you were a little badge on you
that gives us a Geiger counter
amount of radiation
that you are getting
exposed to over a lifetime.
When you get to here,
they say, well, you can't
be exposed any more radiation.
Same thing with these estrogens.
So there is a lifetime
exposure of estrogen
that dictates your risk
for different cancers.
So you are producing
estrogens as a human.
As a man, you're producing
estrogen. As a woman,
they're producing estrogens.
Women produce more.
So if we go adding on top of
that, environmental estrogens,
then that increases your
lifetime exposure of estrogen.
If you take birth control pills,
that increases your lifetime
exposure of estrogen. If
you take synthetic hormone
replacement after menopause,
that increases your lifetime
exposure of estrogen.
If you stay overweight
with these fat cells that
are borne of inflammation,
these growth factors, that
is increasing your lifetime
exposure of estrogen.
>> So it's really a cumulative
effect when we're talking about
the exposure to estrogens.
>> Exactly.
>> As opposed to just a one-off.
>> Right.
>> So I'm hearing hormones,
estrogen, testosterone,
thyroid, immune system.
So, naturally, my
thought goes to fat cells
and cancer and obesity.
Is there any kind
of relationship
between obesity and cancer?
Let's listen to Dr. Roby
Mitchell, Dr. James Forsyth,
and Dr. Patrick Quillin
address this issue.
>> We'll just talk about
obesity for a second.
2/3 of Americans are overweight.
Half of them, or 1/3 of
them, are medically obese.
And you realize that
obesity increases
the risk for diabetes,
hypertension, a couple
of different types of cancers--
colon and breast-- gallstones,
Alzheimer's, the list goes on.
And, yet, the more we focus
on obesity, the more nutrition
supplements that are
available for it,
it seems the fatter
America gets.
And a big part of that has been
some of the misinformation that
came out.
In the '70s and '80s
they said, don't eat fat.
You won't get fat if
you don't eat fat.
So they said, what can I eat?
Well, anything but fat.
So we loaded the
food with sugar.
Now we've got more
obesity than ever.
>> I always tell patients, every
cancer diet is a weight loss
diet, because any time you're
cutting out simple sugars
and high glycemic foods,
you're going to lose weight.
As simple as that.
>> Any anti-cancer diet is low
in sugar because we don't want
to fuel the cancer cells, right?
>> Otto Warburg told us in 1932
that cancer cells only thrive
on simple sugars, not
complex carbohydrates,
not fats or proteins.
And he was right then, but
conventional oncologists
completely ignored that.
In fact, if you go
into any infusion
center in any hospital
in the country,
you'll see a big bowl of candy,
usually, and soft drinks.
>> Yeah.
>> So they totally ignore the
properties of the cancer cell.
>> Dr. Roby, would you talk
about the relationship between
fat cells and cancers.
>> So fat cells, we have to
delineate normal fat cells from
fat cells that are fat cells
because of the inflammatory
process, all right?
So, normal fat cells,
per se, are not
necessarily carcinogenic.
Inflammation is carcinogenic.
And what inflammation
is is basically
a war between your immune
cells and some critter.
It can be a virus, it can be a
bacteria, it can be a fungus,
it can be cancer.
So, if you remember back to
the beginning of the Iraq
War and that shock
and awe, that's
very analogous to what
happens with the immune system
when it's trying to fight
off a bacteria, virus,
or fungus, to some degree.
So your immune system-- and
it's a very apropos analogy
to compare the immune
system to the military,
because you do have all
these different soldiers--
T cells, and killer T cells,
and macrophages, and macrosites,
and so forth, Kupffer
cells in the liver,
and specialized cells in
each tissue in the body--
that are sentinels that
are surveying the area.
And, then, if something goes
awry, then they let loose.
And they have all these
weapons of mass destruction
to make things happen.
So when your
temperature goes up,
when you get red, when
you have diarrhea,
when you have the sniffles and
the watery eyes and all that,
so all of that is not
because of the critter.
That's because of
these chemicals
that your immune system
is able to release.
You know, I was an emergency
room doctor before,
and I can tell you that
these chemicals are
so powerful that they can kill
you very quickly in a process
that we call anaphylactic shock.
So if you go into anaphylactic
shock-- and, again,
that's a consequence of the
production of these weapons
of mass destruction
of the immune system--
you die very quickly if you're
not in my emergency room,
right?
So we have to respect
that the immune system has
some really powerful weapons.
And, so, in a condition less
benign than anaphylactic shock
where you've got a fever and
red and that type of thing,
then it's just spitting
out some chemicals
that make the environment
not so hospitable.
Not so hospitable
for the bacteria,
but also not so hospitable
for human cells either.
And so this is what creates
that toxic situation
that, over a long
period of time,
the human cell will try
to protect itself from.
One of the things,
the chemicals,
that is produced during
this inflammatory process
are called growth factors.
So growth factors have
an estrogenic effect,
and estrogens, in general,
make cells go into what?
The hyperplasia that
we talked about before.
So making one cell faster
than normal, change to two,
change to four, change to eight.
Again, exponential
growth, right?
So those fat cells
that are borne
of an inflammatory
situation, those then
are linked to the
formation of cancer.
>> So there is a direct
relationship between fat cells
and cancer.
Wow, that's fascinating
information.
Now, Dr. Robert Scott Bell
is a gastrointestinal health
specialist.
He understands the
immune system and the way
that it's generated
in our gut, and so I
thought it was very important to
talk to him about this subject.
A recurring theme that I'm
hearing from doctors that I've
interviewed is cancer can't
exist if the immune system is
functioning properly.
>> Sure.
Yeah.
>> So talk about that.
>> Well, the toxins
impact the liver.
The liver is your main
organ for detoxification
to bind and
eliminate and excrete
through the colon as
solid waste or sending
to the kidneys as
a liquid waste.
If the liver is not
doing its job, of course,
what gets to the
kidneys is often a form
that the kidneys can't
handle very well.
And the toxins then
circulate through the system.
The body tries to find a way
to tuck it away somewhere else.
Now, a big way that we
interact with these toxins
is through the gastrointestinal
tract, the alimentary canal.
And these toxins are going
to impact on the microflora.
The microflora is the
seat of the immune system,
along with the liver, but in
the intestines are 70% or so
of the immune system is there.
And when we impact
our healthy flora,
the good gut ecology,
we impact, negatively,
our ability to have
a normal interaction
with the outside world.
Because, technically, that
gastrointestinal tract,
that alimentary canal,
from your mouth--
and we get astrological.
I love to do this-- out
through the planet Uranus--
you get it?--
you have this tube
that's technically
outside of your body,
even though it's in.
It's the outside
environment carried through,
and there's that barrier,
that epithelial barrier.
That epithelial integrity
is critical to protect you
from things that
shouldn't get it,
including these toxic poisons,
or even metabolic waste.
And when that
barrier is corrupted
via toxins, additives,
preservatives, colorings,
flavorings,
pesticides, herbicides,
fungicides, plastifiers, GMOs--
genetically modified
ingredients-- and heavy metals,
especially, like mercury,
you pierce that barrier.
You impact, you
create inflammation,
and now you have leaky gut.
And the bacteria
themselves are no longer
in a hospitable environment,
so you have dysbiotic organisms
growing.
You have candida yeast
albicans overgrowth
and different forms of candida.
And there's so many
things that go wrong,
it's amazing that
we survive at all.
But that's a testament
to the creator,
you know, that
we've being created
to withstand so much
assault. But we have a limit,
and that limit, of course,
is when the toxins overwhelm
our ability to deal with them.
The accumulation can no
longer be held in check.
Then we have that dysregulation,
and these cells proliferate,
and our immune system no longer
has the strength and integrity
to be that barrier,
to fight it off,
to keep it in check, because
of all these other things that
occur--
the liver toxins, the
intestinal toxins, et cetera.
So this is where the
immune system is corrupted.
The gut, primarily,
along with the liver.
And that's why I always
start my focal point
of healing for
anybody by working
with the liver and the gut.
And then we are not even,
necessarily, chasing a symptom,
chasing a disease,
but we're correcting
the terrain, the milieu or the
environment, at its source.
>> In 1908, Elie Metchnikoff
won a Nobel Prize in medicine
for his work with
the immune system.
He's considered the father
of modern immunology.
And has worked with the
bacteria that makes yogurt.
And he said, death
begins in the colon.
And for many
patients, that's true.
And so what do we do?
We give them narcotics,
that causes a slowing
down of nerve impulses.
That's good, it
shuts down the pain.
It slows down the nerve
impulses that go to the muscles
too, which now
causes constipation.
If the patient had a
problem with dysbiosis,
or a lack of proper
organisms in the gut,
it's going to get worse now.
So, I guess, modern
medicine needs to look,
instead of this being
just a business--
and it's OK to make
money at health care,
as long as you're
helping people--
but instead of it
just being a business,
let's make it a business that
looks at underlying causes.
And instead of Mrs. Jones
the new diabetic saying,
20 years worth of annuities.
Look at this.
She's worth a
quarter of a million.
Let's see if we can get
her out of diabetes.
Let's see if we can change
the underlying causes.
Same thing with cancer.
>> Interesting perspective
from Dr. Quillin.
He says that we need to get
to the underlying causes,
and not just treat the symptoms,
when we're dealing with cancer.
When I was recently
in Washington, DC,
I was able to connect
with Dr. Sherri Tenpenny,
an expert on vaccines.
Here's what she had to say.
So, health it is not--
health is an
inside-out phenomenon.
>> That's my phrase.
>> Right?
>> That's what I
say all the time.
>> That's where I got it.
>> Oh.
>> I read from your lectures.
>> That's good.
>> So health is an
inside-out phenomenon,
which I've heard you say.
So, could you explain
what you mean by that?
Is bad health the result
of a lack of needles?
>> Uh-- no.
And the opposite side of
that is, health does not
come through a needle.
It just can't.
We just can't, in any
way, think that we're
going to inject something into
a little baby, or an adult,
that in any way is going to
positively impact their health.
So health is an
inside-out phenomenon.
You have an intact immune
system, good nutrition,
adequate organs of
detoxification-- liver, kidney,
colon, skin.
All of those things
come out easily.
You've got all the appropriate
nutrients in there--
your B vitamins,
vitamin D, vitamin C--
all the appropriate
things that you need,
that you could be
swimming in bugs.
In fact, sitting in
this room right here,
how many bugs do you
think are in the air
in this massive hotel,
in the carpeting.
And if you live on a farm, and
you're going out and petting
animals and all of
that, you are not
succumbing to all of these
viruses and bacteria that
are around you if you are
healthy from the inside out,
and your immune system does
what God intended it to do
and what we were
humanly designed to be.
>> Wow.
A fascinating quote
by Dr. Tenpenny there.
Health is an
inside-out phenomenon.
I'd have to agree with her.
We've got to be
healthy on the inside.
Otherwise, health is not going
to be expressed on the outside.
So how do we stay
healthy on the inside?
That's the question.
While we were filming
this episode, actually--
I'm good friends with all
of the production team
that's with me here
in the studio--
one of them asked me, he said,
Ty, how many of your relatives
that died of cancer
do you think died
from environmental toxicity?
How many of them
was caused by that,
by environmental toxicity?
I told him, I think
probably all of them,
all seven close family
members that I've lost
were due to
environmental toxicity.
Now, this is in line with the
American Cancer Society's web
site.
If you go there,
there's a document
called Cancer Facts and
Figures that you can download.
And in that document it says
that up to 95% of all cancers
are caused by
environmental toxins.
So it seems pretty important
to learn about toxicity, to me,
and in light of the fact that
most people that die of cancer
die because the cancer
got a hold of their body
because their body was toxic.
So tomorrow night we're
going to learn about toxins.
We are going to learn about
these environmental toxins that
invade your body--
whether it be through vaccines,
or genetically modified foods,
or pesticides on your food,
fluoride in the water,
whatever the toxin
source may be--
that compromised
that immune system
that we learned about
tonight and make your body
more susceptible to cancer.
This is incredibly
valuable information.
You don't want to miss
tomorrow night's episode.
It could literally
save your life.
I hope enjoyed
this episode, and I
hope you have a great evening.
We'll see you tomorrow.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
OK, so I'm here with Wayne.
And Wayne is going
to give us his story
of being diagnosed with cancer
and tell us what he did.
>> Well, Ty, my story
started in 2010.
I was diagnosed with
prostate cancer.
And, like everybody
else, I wasn't sure
what I was going to do.
I did know I wasn't going to do
anything on the medical side.
I had gone to an oncologist
who did a physical on me
and ordered a biopsy,
which I declined.
And what I ended up doing,
I flew to California
to a wellness center, took a
week of education on health
and tried to get my head
around what was going on,
why I had this cancer.
And they taught me a lot about
diet and some of the things
that was going on my
body, the imbalances.
I had them order or an
MRI and an MRS for me
so I could get a
handle on the cancer,
making sure it was contained.
It was a stage 2 cancer, and it
was contained in my prostate.
I come back home,
and I searched out
two people I had
heard that had dealt
with their cancer on their own.
And through some information I
got from one of the two people,
I got Bill Henderson's name.
I got his book, and
I contacted Bill--
after I read his book--
if he would be a coach
and direct me through this.
And I followed the protocols
of Bill, which is basically,
I dealt with my dental issues.
I completely changed my diet.
And one of the things I didn't
do, till a couple of years
later, was deal with
the emotional issues.
But the other two issues
were enough to look
after the cancer for myself.
And it was about eight months
after, I was cancer-free.
And since that time,
that was in late 2011,
I have been working
with a number of people
up in my area that have
done exactly the same thing.
And a lot of people with
more advanced stage cancers
than I had have
done the same thing.
I've had people
with stage 3 and up
to stage 4 cancer
that, within a year,
have done exactly
the same thing.
So I would tell people,
educate yourself.
Take the time to find out what
you need to do for yourself.
You always get
pushed, like I did,
that you've got to do
something right away.
I always tell people, tell
your doctor, I need a time out.
I want to educate myself.
And then make a decision
that you feel is right.
So, all the best.
[MUSIC PLAYING]